---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: 16/8 Fasting
author:
  display_name: craig
  login: craig
  email: craigpardey@gmail.com
  url: http://craigpardey.com
author_login: craig
author_email: craigpardey@gmail.com
author_url: http://craigpardey.com
wordpress_id: 19
wordpress_url: http://capultra.com/?p=19
date: '2012-10-21 12:38:51 -0400'
date_gmt: '2012-10-21 12:38:51 -0400'
categories:
- Fasting
tags: []
comments: []
---
<p>Fasting has been getting a lot of buzz in the fitness industry lately. It is great for fat loss and is associated with many <a href="http:/&#47;www.marksdailyapple.com&#47;health-benefits-of-intermittent-fasting&#47;">health benefits<&#47;a> including increased longevity and improved insulin sensitivity.  However, it's often met with derision by friends and family.  Try explaining to a four-year-old why you're not having breakfast.</p>
<p>I followed <a href="http:/&#47;leangains.com">Martin Berkhan<&#47;a>'s intermittent fasting protocol for about 9 months, with an 8-hour eating window between 12pm and 8pm.  I did my workouts around 5.30am and took BCAAs until my first meal at 12pm.  </p>
<p>The adjustment period took longer than advertised - my body was used to consuming a large breakfast and a mid-morning snack so fasting until lunch time was a little challenging.  I usually felt "out of it" until I ate, but that subsided after about six weeks and I found it to be easy after that on most days.</p>
<p>By far the greatest benefit of 16/8 fasting was its effectiveness at keeping my body fat down around 10%.  I still ate clean food (well, mostly) during my 8-hour feeding window but <del>binge<&#47;del> cheat days didn't seem to matter a whole lot.</p>
<p>I did find it difficult to build muscle on a 16/8 fasting protocol, most likely because 8 hours just isn't enough time to eat sufficient calories.  This was exacerbated if I started doing any sort of aerobic activity like running.</p>
<p>My calorie requirements are going through the roof now that I've started training for an ultramarathon so I need to switch up my eating patterns to ensure that I'm getting enough food at the appropriate time.  It would be ill-advised to attempt a 25 mile (40km) run without eating during or afterwards.</p>
<p><a href="http:/&#47;bradpilon.com">Brad Pilon<&#47;a>'s <a href="http:&#47;&#47;eatstopeat.com">Eat Stop Eat<&#47;a> intermittent fasting lifestyle is more appropriate for my level of activity.  Brad recommends one or two 24-hour fasts each week, so I'll be able to eat appropriately for my workouts, but can still reap the health benefits of fasting by taking a break once or twice a week on the days where it makes the most sense.</p>
