---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: 50 miler
author:
  display_name: craig
  login: craig
  email: craigpardey@gmail.com
  url: http://craigpardey.com
author_login: craig
author_email: craigpardey@gmail.com
author_url: http://craigpardey.com
wordpress_id: 13
wordpress_url: http://capultra.com/?p=13
date: '2012-10-20 00:58:43 -0400'
date_gmt: '2012-10-20 00:58:43 -0400'
categories:
- Ultramarathon
tags: []
comments: []
---

My brother and I have recently started discussing the idea of running an
ultra-marathon in 2013. 50 miles (80 km). Holy shit.

I've read a few books about ultrarunning including "Born to Run" and
"Ultramarathon Man" but never really thought that I'd be able to do it myself.
Sibling <del>rivalry</del> kinship practically demands that we follow through
with this. I'm not going to be the one to back down.

The first question that came to my mind was, "How the f*ck do you train for an
ultra?". It seems that that it boils down to a few simple things:

  1. Run far.
  2. Run hills.
  3. Lift weights.
  4. Eat lots.
  

The first point is obvious - you have to be able to run long distances. This
is done by doing back-to-back long runs on the weekends. For example, running
40km on Saturday and then another 20km on Sunday. Sunday should be half of
Saturday's mileage. Increase the distance of these by a few miles/km each
week.

Then there's hill training. I love hill training. It's hard as hell but feels
so good afterwards, and it's also great for fat loss. Simply find a steep
hill, run up as fast as you can, walk/jog back down. Repeat. Do this once per
week and increase the number of repetitions each week.

Weight lifting is one of the oft-overlooked aspects of running. As much as I
like running, I don't like having a runner's physique - wiry and thin. I lift
heavy weights a few times per week avoid this. Squats, deadlifts, bench press,
shoulder press. That's it.

